_includes/modules/ShowFieldGlyphs.md, before:

---
title: ShowFieldGlyphs
category: moduledocs
module:
  category: Visualization
  package: SCIRun
tags: module

---

# {{ page.title }}

## Category

**{{ page.module.category }}**

## Description

### Summary

This module visualizes the data that makes up a Field. When possible and selected, the glyph takes its color from the data values that permeate the field.

**Detailed Description**

The field in the first input port holds the data that is to be visualized. By default is will be displayed using the the default color, which is editable from the GUI If there is a color map attached to the second input port, then the data can be used as an index into the color map, and the glyph is rendered with appropriate colors. In addition, the data itself can be converted into a color. **Scalar** data creates a gray scale mapping, **vector** data (normalized) creates RGB colors, and the **principle eigenvector** (normalized) of tensor data also creates RGB colors. For tensors, the vector magnitude of the three eigenvalues is used as the index into the color map. The absolute value of vector x, y, z components are used to generate RGB color components:

```
       (R = |x|, G = |y|, B = |z|)
```

It is possible to use a secondary or tertiary data to control the glyph parameters. For instance, when rendering vectors as a cone the orientation and length of the cone are determined by the primary field whereas the secondary field can be used to determine the radius and/or color of the cone.

{% capture url %}{% include url.md %}{% endcapture %}
{{ url }}

Commit message:

-Added documentation on secondary and tertiary inputs. -Reorganized layout. -Added tables.

_includes/modules/ShowFieldGlyphs.md, after:

---
title: ShowFieldGlyphs
category: moduledocs
module:
  category: Visualization
  package: SCIRun
tags: module

---

# {{ page.title }}

## Category

**{{ page.module.category }}**

## Description

### Summary
This module visualizes the data that makes up a Field. When possible and selected, the glyph takes its color from the data values that permeate the field.

### Ports
This module has 6 input ports, 3 field inputs and 3 color map inputs. The only required port is the first field input port because that holds the data that is to be visualized. By default, ports will be set to primary input.

**Secondary and Tertiary Ports**
The secondary and tertiary ports can be used to scale vector parameters like width.
**Ex:** When rendering vectors as a cone the orientation and length of the cone are determined by the primary field, but the secondary field can be used to determine the radius of the cone.

They can also be used to assign colors based on data besides the primary field.
**Ex:** If you want to render scalars in RGB, you can give a secondary input of a vector or tensor and set the coloring to RGB Conversion through the secondary input.

### Color
By default, glyphs will be displayed using the the default color, which is editable from the GUI. 

**Color Map**
If there is a color map and field attached to the selected input port, then the data in the selected field input can be used as an index into the corresponding color map, and the glyph is rendered with appropriate colors. 

| Type   | Description                                                 |
|--------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| Scalar | Uses scalar value as index                                  |
| Vector | Uses vector's lenght as index                               |
| Tensor | Uses the vector magnitude of the 3 eigenvalues as the index |

**RGB Color Conversion**
If there is a field attached to the selected input port, then the data in the selected field will be converted into a color. The absolute value of vector x, y, z components are used to generate RGB color components:

```
   (R = |x|, G = |y|, B = |z|)
```

| Type   | Description                                           |
|--------|:------------------------------------------------------|
| Scalar | Creates gray scale mapping                            |
| Vector | Normalized vector creates RGB colors                  |
| Tensor | Priniciple eigenvector(normalized) creates RGB colors |

{% capture url %}{% include url.md %}{% endcapture %}
{{ url }}
